Poseidon
Franz Kafka
(translation: Wikisource)


Poseidon sat at his desk and calculated. Managing all the seas gave him endless work. He could've had as many assistants as he wanted (and indeed he had very many) but, as he took his position very seriously, he felt he must do everything himself, and thus the assistants were of little help to him. It cannot be said that the work brought him joy; essentially, he performed it only because it was imposed upon him. Indeed, he had often applied for "cheerier work" (as he put it), but whatever positions were suggested to him never turned out to suit him quite as well as his current office. It was very difficult to find anything different for him to do. It was unfitting, after all, to assign him to one specific sea;— aside from the fact that the bookkeeping there would not be smaller (only more petty), the great Poseidon should only ever hold a commanding position. And had he been offered a position outside the water... the very idea of it made him sick; his divine breath grew labored, his bronze chest heaved. Besides, his complaints were never taken seriously. When a powerful figure grumbles, a subordinate must at least go through the motions of taking action, even in the most hopeless of matters, and even when no one ever truly thought of relieving Poseidon of his office. Since the very beginning, Poseidon had been destined to be the god of the seas, and so it had to remain.

What annoyed him most (and this was the main cause of his dissatisfaction with his position) was hearing the popular conceptions men had of him: how he was supposedly always riding through the waves with his trident. When in truth, he sat here at the depths of the world's ocean, calculating unceasingly. An occasional trip to visit Zeus was the only interruption to the monotony — a trip, however, from which he usually returned in a rage. Thus, he had hardly seen the seas, catching only glimpses during his hurried ascents to Olympus, and had never truly explored them. He used to say that he was waiting for the end of the world; then, there would surely be a quiet moment when, just before the end, and after finishing the very last account, he might still be able to make a quick little tour.

A third paragraph appears in some versions:

Poseidon grew weary of his seas. The trident fell from his grasp. He sat silently on the rocky coast, and a gull, dazed by his presence, traced faltering circles around his head.
